
# Installing tools for Angular CLI

 
## Typescript

First lets install typescript. Since we will be using this all over, and certainly be using the lastest and greatest version we can install as follows.


```bash
npm install -g typescript
```

Yes we used -g in the case :+1:


 
 
## Angular CLI
 
This is a tool that is used to manage Angular2 projects. You can create your projects on the command line as well as do repetitive tasks
like add components, pipes, routes and the like.  A tool like this is generally preferred to start out with.  It will also
add test shells on the fly.

Other tools like this are Yeoman, any number of "seed" projects and webpack.  Ultimately, its all webpack to some degree in the end.
Webpack will be explored in depth later.  For now, lets just say we have a cli to build our project.


The website makes it look so easy.   

https://cli.angular.io/
https://github.com/angular/angular-cli
 
```bash
npm install -g angular-cli
```

Again, this is global.

Now we have the _NG_ cli command.

Again, if you were so inclined, you could install this locally to lock into a particular version.


```bash
ng new my-project
```

This will run for a bit while all those dependences are added.

```
$ tree -F -L 1
 .
├── README.md // an useful README
├── angular-cli.json // angular-cli configuration file
├── e2e/ // end to end tests
├── karma.conf.js // unit test configuration
├── node_modules/ // installed dependencies
├── package.json // npm configuration
├── protractor.conf.js // e2e test configuration
├── src/ // application source
└── tslint.json // linter config file
```

We see our old friends package.json and node_modules as well as some new configuration files for Typescript, testing, and angular-cli

If we go into src, we will see the code that the project has created.

```html
<!doctype html>
<html>
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <title>MyProject</title>
  <base href="/">

  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
  <link rel="icon" type="image/x-icon" href="favicon.ico">
</head>
<body>
  <app-root>Loading...</app-root>
</body>
</html>
```

Two things to point out.  The "base".  Thats new...and for now, lets just call that our starting point route.

There is also the _app-root_. This is the component that is the entry point into our project.  If we were to just load this 
file in a browser, it would say "Loading..." and thats about it. With angular core running, we will inject our application here.


## Start the server

The angular-cli commmand is used to kick off a server and watcher as well.



```bash
$ ng serve
** NG Live Development Server is running on http://localhost:4200. **
Build successful - 1342ms.
```

The application is now running on localhost port 4200.
http://localhost:4200

And there you have it.

*App works!*


## App component

The main module here is the app module. There are several file all over the place. Some are configuaration, some for webpack, but the one we want to look at
is the /app directory.

In there we have app.component.ts

```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent {
  title = 'app works!';
}
```
 
All this was generated by the CLI.  It knows what to import and does the skeleton code for the application, css, html and testcase.

The exported class AppComponent is basically what was the controller.  In Angular 1.5, they started the module concept and moved away from 
adding values to the $scope and instead use the value in the javascript object itself.



Lets add to this. We will add two more properties to the AppComponent. This is similar to adding to the scope in angular.


```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent {
  title = 'app works!';
  title2 = 'Go Angular';
  title3 = 'Its your birthday';
}
```

Once you save...check out the shell. Its compiling on the fly.

The templateUrl points to the html template that belongs to this component.  It can be written inline or in a different file.

```html
<h1>
  {{title}}
</h1>
```

The part with the  {{ }}  is what is called a template tag. Angular2 will use interpolation to evaluate the contents of
the curly brackets. It will replace that name with the string value of the component property in the component.

You can evaluate all kinds of things here, but for now..lets just stick to a property reference.

 

Read more:

  * https://medium.com/front-end-hacking/angular-2-a-quick-intro-about-template-syntax-121f9b160a64#.ai8sqmfub
  

Lets modifiy our template to say.

```html
<h1>
  {{title}} - {{title2}} - {{title3}}
</h1>
```

and that turned out as silly as expected.

### CSS file

We can tweak the app.component.css file to add some css classes

```css
.color1 {
    color: blue;
}

.color2 {
    color: red;
}

 .color3 {
    color: green;
}
```


```html
<h1>
  <span class="color1">{{title}}</span> - <span class="color2">{{title2}}</span> - <span class="color3">{{title3}}</span>
</h1>
```

 
 



